Spectrum 2 is designed for everyone.
Accessibility isn't an afterthought.
It's built into every part of our system.
To reach this goal at scale.
We now use AI to automate the process
of making images accessible.
By combining design principles
with intelligent automation.
Spectrum 2 brings inclusivity
to live across every documentation page.
Every documentation page starts in Figma,
with designers
exporting hero images and other visuals
use across Spectrum 2.
But there are hundreds of images
to manage,
and each update to the design system means
exporting them again and again.
This is where automation helps.
Instead of writing
or updating ALT text manually.
AI now generates
it instantly as images change.
Keeping accessibility consistent
and effortless.
The CMS Asset
Manager uploads
new or updated images through GitHub
pull request.
Each image
is checked into a structured folder
based on this category.
Once the changes are merged,
a webhook event is triggered
in the back end, automatically sending
these images to GPT-4o,
a multimodal AI model that generates
professional, context aware captions.
What used to take hours of manual work
now happens instantly and consistently.
Once GPT-4o finishes
generating a caption,
the webhook automatically uploads
the image and its metadata
back to the CMS.
Each caption becomes
part of the images record,
ready to be used in page rendering
When authors preview
the documentation site,
every image already
includes its AI generated ALT text.
The result is a fully accessible
experience that meets the strictest
WCAG
2.1 standards
without any extra manual work.
This workflow
brings everything together
from design to automation.
GitHub acts as the single source of truth.
Versioning and organizing all image assets
with AI captioning built in.
This approach can easily scale across
multiple languages and documentation
sites, making accessibility an integral
part of Spectrum 2 by design.